We've explored the data, examined the literature,
picked our features, and pre-processed all our data.
Now, it's time to finally build a classifier.
We will get started by loading our data and extracting features.
You've seen this before, we're going to use 10 second non-overlapping windows.
If you've done machine learning in Python before,
you've seen this package called scikit-learn.
Machine learning for wearables is no different,
we're going to use sklearn to train a random forest classifier.
Our forest will have 100 trees,
each with a maximum depth of four.
There we go, we've trained our classifier.
Of course, we just trained it on our entire dataset so we can't really evaluate it.
So one way to evaluate the performance of
a multi-class classifier is to use a confusion matrix.
The confusion matrix shows us how many data points were misclassified,
and what they were misclassified as.
We can take this example where our true class labels are bike,
run, run, walk, and then our predictions are run, run, bike, walk.
We'll use scikit-learn's confusion matrix
function to help us compute the confusion matrix,
and then I've put a helper function inside
activity classifier utils for us to visualize it.
So the rows of this matrix are the true activity labels,
and then the columns are what we've predicted each class as.
We can see that there was one true bike and we called it a run,
that's this first data point.
There were two running activities in the dataset,
we called one of them a bike,
and we correctly classified the other as a run, that's these two.
Then we had one walk which we also
correctly classified as a walk, and that's this guy here.
Now that we know what a confusion matrix is,
let's use it to evaluate the performance of our classifier.